[INTLY-1443] and [INTLY-2668] - Push Grafana dash + alerts + sop (#44)
aerogear/unifiedpush-operator: SOP/SOP-push.adoc

> :toc:

Reviewer: On L14 (above here), this says "UnifiedPush Operator - Standard Operating Procedures". That should maybe be "UnifiedPush *Server* - Standard Operating Procedures"

toc::[]

== Overview

> The following guide outlines the steps required to manage and solve issues over the https://github.com/aerogear/aerogear-unifiedpush-server[UnifiedPush Server] managed, installed and configured via the https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator[UnifiedPush Operator].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following guide outlines the steps required to manage and solve issues with the https://github.com/aerogear/aerogear-unifiedpush-server[UnifiedPush Server], which is managed, installed and configured via the https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator[UnifiedPush Operator].
```

== Reference Articles

- https://github.com/aerogear/aerogear-unifiedpush-server[UnifiedPush Server]
- https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator[UnifiedPush Operator]
- https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/alerting/[Prometheus Alerts documentation]

== Success Indicators

> All alerts should appears as green in the Prometheus Alert Monitoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All alerts should appear as green in the Prometheus Alert Monitoring.
```

== Prometheus Alerts Procedures

> The following guide outlines the steps required to solve issues which will be alert by the Prometheus alerts configured to monitoring the  https://github.com/aerogear/aerogear-unifiedpush-server[UnifiedPush Server] when it is managed, installed and configured via the https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator[UnifiedPush Operator].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following guide outlines the steps required to resolve issues with the Prometheus alerts configured to monitor the https://github.com/aerogear/aerogear-unifiedpush-server[UnifiedPush Server] when it is managed, installed and configured via the https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator[UnifiedPush Operator].
```

> IMPORTANT: Before check any following steps see if the operator pod is running successful. More info: https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator/blob/0.1.0/SOP/SOP-operator.adoc[UnifiedPushOperatorDown]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: Before checking any following steps, see if the operator pod is running successfully. More info: https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator/blob/0.1.0/SOP/SOP-operator.adoc[UnifiedPushOperatorDown]
```

> TIP: You can save the logs by running `oc logs <podname> > <filename>.log`. The logs can provided to you useful information in order to identify the root cause of the issue as they are required information to be send to its maintainers in the case it need to be checked by them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: You can save the logs by running `oc logs <operator-podname> > <filename>.log`. The logs may provide you with useful information to lead you to the root cause, and they are also useful for providing to the project maintainers when you create an issue.
```

=== Critical

==== UnifiedPushDown or UnifiedPushConsoleDown

> The pod which runs the https://github.com/aerogear/aerogear-unifiedpush-server[UnifiedPush Server] is down or is not present in the same namespace of the operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pod which runs the https://github.com/aerogear/aerogear-unifiedpush-server[UnifiedPush Server] is down or is not present in the same namespace as the operator.
```

> . Check that the link:./deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_cr.yaml[UnifiedPushServer CR] or link:./deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_cr_with_backup[UnifiedPushServerWithBackup CR] is deployed in the same namespace as the operator by running `oc get UnifiedPushServer`. Following the expected result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check that there is a UnifiedPushServer CR deployed in the same namespace as the operator by running `oc get UnifiedPushServer`. The following is an example of the expected result.
```

I've taken out the links to our examples, since people can create their own examples (and we've now got 3 examples and may have more in future).

+

> NOTE: Just one kind of UnifiedPushServer CR can be applied, however, if the backup service is enable for your installation then it means that it is using the ink:./deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_cr_with_backup[UnifiedPushServerWithBackup CR].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I don't think this is important information, and could add more confusion that it's worth. The person following this SOP will probably have their own CR that's different from either of our examples (there is only one "kind" of UnifiedPushServer CR, but it can be configured in different ways -- our examples are not relevant for the SOP).

+
[source,shell]
----
$ oc get UnifiedPushServer
NAME                        AGE
example-unifiedpushserver   9d
----
+

> NOTE: The UnifiedPushServer should be applied in the same namespace of the operator. The operator will not able to manage it in another namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The UnifiedPushServer should be applied in the same namespace as the operator. The operator will not able to manage it in another namespace.
```

I think this cam maybe be removed altogether, since it's covered earlier by the step on line 47.

+
. Check the environment variables of the Server
.. Run `oc describe pods -l service=ups`
+
NOTE: For further information see https://github.com/aerogear/aerogear-unifiedpush-server#container-configuration.
+
WARNING: It will use the values mapped in the Secret created by the operator with the database pod name.
+
. Check the environment variables of the Database

> .. Run `oc get pods` and check the database pod name. Following an example of the expected result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Run `oc get pods` and check the database pod name. The following is an example of the expected result:
```

+
[source,shell]
----
$ oc get pods
NAME                                           READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
example-unifiedpushserver-1-dk8vm              2/2       Running   2          9d
example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql-1-bw8mt   1/1       Running   1          9d
unifiedpush-operator-58c8877fd8-g6dvr          1/1       Running   3          9d
----
+

> .. Run `oc describe pods <databasepodname>`. Following an example of the expected result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Run `oc describe pods <databasepodname>`. The following is an example of the expected result:
```

      POSTGRESQL_DATABASE:  <set to the key 'POSTGRES_DATABASE' in secret 'example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql'>  Optional: false
    Mounts:
      /var/lib/pgsql/data from example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql-data (rw)
      /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount from default-token-hkwgz (ro)
Conditions:
  Type              Status
  Initialized       True
  Ready             True
  ContainersReady   True
  PodScheduled      True
Volumes:
  example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql-data:
    Type:       PersistentVolumeClaim (a reference to a PersistentVolumeClaim in the same namespace)
    ClaimName:  example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql
    ReadOnly:   false
  default-token-hkwgz:
    Type:        Secret (a volume populated by a Secret)
    SecretName:  default-token-hkwgz
    Optional:    false
QoS Class:       Burstable
Node-Selectors:  <none>
Tolerations:     node.kubernetes.io/memory-pressure:NoSchedule
Events:          <none>
----
+
NOTE: It can lead you to find the root cause of the issue faced.
+
.. Check if the database image was pulled successfully.
. Check the logs of the UPS OAuth Proxy Container

> .. Get the service pod name -> `oc describe pods -l service=ups`. Following an example of the expected result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Get the service pod name -> `oc describe pods -l service=ups`. The following is an example of the expected result:
```

If all you want is the name, then you could alternatively just do `oc get po -l service=ups -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}'`

      --http-address=0.0.0.0:4180
      --skip-auth-regex=/rest/sender,/rest/registry/device,/rest/prometheus/metrics,/rest/auth/config
      --https-address=
      --cookie-secret=b3207b16503d491993e2057b9959951a
    State:          Running
      Started:      Fri, 12 Jul 2019 08:52:01 -0300
    Last State:     Terminated
      Reason:       Error
      Exit Code:    255
      Started:      Wed, 03 Jul 2019 21:45:23 -0300
      Finished:     Fri, 12 Jul 2019 08:48:01 -0300
    Ready:          True
    Restart Count:  1
    Environment:    <none>
    Mounts:
      /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount from example-unifiedpushserver-token-5cmlp (ro)
Conditions:
  Type              Status
  Initialized       True
  Ready             True
  ContainersReady   True
  PodScheduled      True
Volumes:
  example-unifiedpushserver-token-5cmlp:
    Type:        Secret (a volume populated by a Secret)
    SecretName:  example-unifiedpushserver-token-5cmlp
    Optional:    false
QoS Class:       BestEffort
Node-Selectors:  <none>
Tolerations:     <none>
Events:          <none>
----
+
NOTE: It can lead you to find the root cause of the issue faced.
+

> .. Run `oc logs <service-podname> -c ups-oauth-proxy`. E.g `oc logs example-unifiedpushserver-1-dk8vm -c ups-oauth-proxy`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Run `oc logs $(oc get po -l service=ups -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -c ups-oauth-proxy`.
```

+

> NOTE: Usually it has no logs at all, however, it can lead you to find the root cause of the issue faced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Usually it only has startup logs, but sometimes if there's an issue with it, it might have error logs that will indicate what the issue is.
```

+

> .. If logs are found in the above step then save the logs by running `oc logs <service-podname> -c ups-oauth-proxy > <filename>.log`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. If logs are found in the above step then save the logs by running `oc logs $(oc get po -l service=ups -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -c ups-oauth-proxy > ups-oauth-proxy-$(date +'%F-%T').log`
```

^This just gives a command that they don't have to edit first

+

> NOTE: Capture the logs are important to provide the required information for its maintainers in order to allow them check it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The captured logs are useful information to provide to the project maintainers in an issue report.
```

+

> .. Check if the oauth-proxy image was pulled successfully.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this is a useful step, since if it _wasn't_ pulled successfully, then the pod wouldn't have started, and some of the earlier steps wouldn't have been possible to run.

QoS Class:       BestEffort
Node-Selectors:  <none>
Tolerations:     <none>
Events:          <none>
----
+
NOTE: It can lead you to find the root cause of the issue faced.
+
.. Save the logs by running `oc logs <service-podname> -c ups > <filename>.log`. E.g `oc logs example-unifiedpushserver-1-dk8vm -c ups > logs.log`
+
NOTE: Capture the logs are important to provide the required information for its maintainers in order to allow them check it.
+
.. See and capture the `pod/example-unifiedpushserver-<xyz123> > <filename>.log` logs. E.g `oc logs example-unifiedpushserver-1-dk8vm -c ups > logs.log`
+
NOTE: May the logs can lead you to check the root cause of this issuse and capture the logs are important to provide the required information for its maintainers in order to allow them check it.
+
.. Check if the UnifiedPush Server image was pulled successfully
. Check if the secret was created
.. Run `oc get secrets | grep postgresql` in the namespace where the operator is installed. Following the expected result.
+
[source,shell]
----
$ oc get secrets | grep postgresql
example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql        Opaque                                6         9d
----
+

> NOTE: The secret is required in order to provide the data required for the database pod container as user, database name and password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The secret is required in order to provide the data required for the database pod container, such as user, database name and password.
```

+
. Check if the values in the secret are correct. To check them you can use `oc edit secret <postgresqlsecretname>`. E.g `oc edit secret example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql`. Following an example of the expected result.
+
[source,shell]
----
apiVersion: v1
data:
  POSTGRES_DATABASE: dW5pZmllZHB1c2g=
  POSTGRES_HOST: ZXhhbXBsZS11bmlmaWVkcHVzaHNlcnZlci1wb3N0Z3Jlc3FsLnVuaWZpZWRwdXNoLnN2Yw==
  POSTGRES_PASSWORD: NzM4NDQ1Mjg1Nzc2NDc4NmIxY2FmMjRlNjdkZDYyNzY=
  POSTGRES_SUPERUSER: ZmFsc2U=
  POSTGRES_USERNAME: dW5pZmllZHB1c2g=
  POSTGRES_VERSION: MTA=
kind: Secret
...
----
+
NOTE: The values described above should not be the same but should all data keys shoud be present with each respective value.
+
. Check the operator pod is present as it is responsible for managing the service pod as described in https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator/blob/0.1.0/SOP/SOP-operator.adoc[UnifiedPushOperatorDown]

==== UnifiedPushDatabaseDown

The pod which runs the https://github.com/aerogear/aerogear-unifiedpush-server[UnifiedPush Server]'s Database(PostgreSQL) is down or is not present in the same namespace of the operator.

> . Check that the link:./deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_cr.yaml[UnifiedPushServer CR] or link:./deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_cr_with_backup[UnifiedPushServerWithBackup CR] is deployed in the same namespace as the operator by running `oc get UnifiedPushServer`. Following the expected result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check that there is a UnifiedPushServer CR deployed in the same namespace as the operator by running `oc get UnifiedPushServer`. The following is an example of the expected result:
```

+

> NOTE: Just one kind of UnifiedPushServer CR can be applied, however, if the backup service is enable for your installation then it means that it is using the ink:./deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_cr_with_backup[UnifiedPushServerWithBackup CR].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+
[source,shell]
----
$ oc get UnifiedPushServer
NAME                        AGE
example-unifiedpushserver   9d
----
+

> NOTE: The 1 UnifiedPushServer CR (link:./deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_cr.yaml[UnifiedPushServer CR] or link:./deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_cr_with_backup[UnifiedPushServerWithBackup CR]) should be applied in the same namespace of the operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Already covered by lin 439 above

+

> . Check that the Database Pod is deployed in the same namespace as the operator by running `oc get pods | grep postgresql`. Following an example of the expected result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check that the Database Pod is deployed in the same namespace as the operator by running `oc get pods | grep postgresql`. The following is an example of the expected result:
```

+
NOTE: You can save the logs by running `oc logs <database-podname> > <filename>.log`
+

> . Check if you are able to see any useful information in the logs which can lead you for the root cause of the issue. Also, by capturing the logs you are able to provide a required information for its maintainers if it be required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check the logs for any useful information which might indicate what the issue is. Also, asking for help, please provide the logs.
```

> .. Check if the Database image was pulled successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Same as before -- if this wasn't the case, the user wouldn't have gotten this far in the prodedure.

. Check the operator pod is present as it is responsible for managing the service pod as described in https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator/blob/0.1.0/SOP/SOP-operator.adoc[UnifiedPushOperatorDown]

==== UnifiedPushJavaHeapThresholdExceeded

It means that Service pod(s) are facing performance issues.

. Please following the <<To capture the logs>> procedure in order to capture the required information to send it to its maintainers.
. Following the steps <<To scale the pod>> in order to try to solve performance issues.

==== UnifiedPushJavaNonHeapThresholdExceeded

It means that Service pod(s) are facing performance issues.

> . Please following the <<To capture the logs>> procedure in order to capture the required information to send it to its maintainers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Please follow the <<To capture the logs>> procedure in order to capture the required information to send it to its maintainers.
```

> . Following the steps <<To scale the pod>> in order to try to solve performance issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Follow the steps in <<To scale the pod>> in order to try to solve performance issues.
```

==== UnifiedPushJavaGCTimePerMinuteScavenge

It means that Service pod(s) are facing performance issues.

> . Please following the <<To capture the logs>> procedure in order to capture the required information to send it to its maintainers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Please follow the <<To capture the logs>> procedure in order to capture the required information to send it to its maintainers.
```

> . Following the steps <<To scale the pod>> in order to try to solve performance issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Follow the steps <<To scale the pod>> in order to try to solve performance issues.
```

=== Warning

==== UnifiedPushMessagesFailures

It means that Service pod(s) has some error that is not able to send the quantity of messages expected.

> . Please following the <<To capture the logs>> procedure in order to capture the required information to send it to its maintainers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Please follow the <<To capture the logs>> procedure in order to capture the required information to send it to its maintainers.
```

=== To capture the logs

. Capture a snapshot of the 'UnifiedPush Server' Grafana dashboard and track it over time. The metrics can be useful for identifying performance issues over time.

. Capture application logs for analysis.

> .. Get the pod names by running `oc get pods`. Following an example of teh expected result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Get the pod names by running `oc get pods`. The following is an example of the expected result:
```

+
[source,shell]
----
$ oc get pods
NAME                                           READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
example-unifiedpushserver-1-dk8vm              2/2       Running   2          9d
example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql-1-bw8mt   1/1       Running   1          9d
unifiedpush-operator-58c8877fd8-g6dvr          1/1       Running   3          9d
----
+
.. Save the logs by running `oc logs <database-podname> > <filename>.log` for each pod
+

> NOTE: You can get the logs from the Console (OCP UI) as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: You can get the logs from the Console (OpenShuft UI) as well.
```

(it may not be the "OCP" product)

+

> IMPORTANT: Capture this data will be useful in order to provide the required information for its maintainers are able to check it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

=== To scale the pod

> Currently, is not possible scale the UPS Server and its Database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, it's not possible to scale the PostgreSQL deployment. The number of UnifiedPush Server Pods can be scaled up in the same way as scaling in any other DeploymentConfig.
```

> == Validate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Validation
```

Maybe? I don't know what a good heading here would be. Also, maybe this section would be better placed towards the top?

=== Installation

> Following the steps to ensure that all is as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to ensure that all is as expected.
```

. Switch to the UPS namespace by running `oc project <namespace>`. E.g `oc project unifiedpush`

> . Check that the link:./deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_cr.yaml[UnifiedPushServer CR] or link:./deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_cr_with_backup[UnifiedPushServerWithBackup CR] is deployed in the same namespace as the operator by running `oc get UnifiedPushServer`. Following the expected result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check that the UnifiedPushServer CR is deployed in the same namespace as the operator by running `oc get UnifiedPushServer`. The following is an example of the expected result:
```

+

> NOTE: Just one kind of UnifiedPushServer CR can be applied, however, if the backup service is enable for your installation then it means that it is using the ink:./deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_cr_with_backup[UnifiedPushServerWithBackup CR].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+
[source,shell]
----
$ oc get UnifiedPushServer
NAME                        AGE
example-unifiedpushserver   9d
----
+
IMPORTANT: This CR will install and configure the Database and Service pods.
+

> . Check if it has at least 3 pods running which each one will be with the Database, Server and Operator by running `oc get pods`. Following an example of the expected result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check if it has at least 3 pods running: the PostgreSQL server, the UnifiedPush server and the UnifiedPush operator by running `oc get pods`. The following is an example of the expected result:
```

+
[source,shell]
----
$ oc get pods
NAME                                           READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
example-unifiedpushserver-1-dk8vm              2/2       Running   4          12d
example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql-1-bw8mt   1/1       Running   2          12d
unifiedpush-operator-58c8877fd8-g6dvr          1/1       Running   6          12d
----
+

> . Check if the secret with the Database data which will be used by the service and its database was created by running `oc get secrets | grep postgresql`.  Following an example of the expected result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Run `oc get secrets | grep postgresql` to check if the secret with the Database data which will be used by the service and its database was created. The following is an example of the expected result:
```

+
[source,shell]
----
$ oc get secrets | grep postgresql
example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql        Opaque                                6         12d
----
+

> . Check if the image streams for the Service and Oauth was created with success by running `oc get imagestream`.  Following an example of the expected result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check if the image streams for UPS and the oauth-proxy were created successfully by running `oc get imagestream`.  The following is an example of the expected result:
```

+
[source,shell]
----
$ oc get imagestream
NAME                          DOCKER REPO                                               TAGS      UPDATED
ups-imagestream               172.30.1.1:5000/unifiedpush/ups-imagestream               latest    12 days ago
ups-oauth-proxy-imagestream   172.30.1.1:5000/unifiedpush/ups-oauth-proxy-imagestream   latest    12 days ago
----
+

> . Check if the route to expose the service public was created with success by running `oc get route | grep unifiedpush-proxy`.  Following an example of the expected result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check if the route to expose the service publicly was created successfully by running `oc get route | grep unifiedpush-proxy`.  The following is an example of the expected result.
```

+
[source,shell]
----
$ oc get route | grep unifiedpush-proxy
example-unifiedpushserver-unifiedpush-proxy   example-unifiedpushserver-unifiedpush-proxy-unifiedpush.192.168.64.27.nip.io             example-unifiedpushserver-unifiedpush-proxy   <all>     edge/None     None
----

> . Check if the DeploymentConfigs to deploy the Service and Database were created with success by running `oc get deploymentconfig | grep unifiedpush`.  Following an example of the expected result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check if the DeploymentConfigs to deploy UPS and PostgreSQL were created successfully by running `oc get deploymentconfig | grep unifiedpush`.  The following is an example of the expected result:
```

+
[source,shell]
----
$ oc get deploymentconfig | grep unifiedpush
example-unifiedpushserver              1          1         1         config,image(postgresql:postgresql:10),image(ups-imagestream:latest),image(ups-oauth-proxy-imagestream:latest)
example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql   1          1         1         image(postgresql:10)
----
+

> . Check if the Proxy Service which is required to allow the UPS Server persist data into its Database was created with success by running `oc get service | grep unifiedpush-proxy`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check if the internal Service (required to allow the unifiedpush-operator to interact with UPS was created successfully, by running `oc get svc -l internal=unifiedpush`
```

+
[source,shell]
----

> $ oc get service | grep unifiedpush-proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
oc get svc -l internal=unifiedpush
NAME                      TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)   AGE
unifiedpush-unifiedpush   ClusterIP   172.30.161.116   <none>        80/TCP    1d

```

> example-unifiedpushserver-unifiedpush-proxy   ClusterIP   172.30.189.9     <none>        80/TCP     12d

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

----
+

> . Check if the  Service for the Database was created with success by running `oc get service | grep postgresql`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check if the  Service for the Database was created successfully by running `oc get service | grep postgresql`
```

+
[source,shell]
----
$ oc get service | grep postgresql
example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql          ClusterIP   172.30.67.199    <none>        5432/TCP   12d
----
+

> . Check if the Service for the Service was created with success by running `oc get service | grep unifiedpushserver`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check if the Service for the oauth-proxy was created successfully by running `oc get service | grep unifiedpushserver`
```

+
[source,shell]
----
$ oc get service | grep unifiedpushserver
example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql          ClusterIP   172.30.67.199    <none>        5432/TCP   12d
example-unifiedpushserver-unifiedpush         ClusterIP   172.30.90.23     <none>        80/TCP     12d
example-unifiedpushserver-unifiedpush-proxy   ClusterIP   172.30.189.9     <none>        80/TCP     12d
----
+

> Following an example of an installation which has the UPS installed without the Backup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example of an installation which has the UPS installed without any backups specified:
```

deploymentconfig.apps.openshift.io/example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql   1          1         1         image(postgresql:10)

NAME                                                         DOCKER REPO                                               TAGS      UPDATED
imagestream.image.openshift.io/ups-imagestream               172.30.1.1:5000/unifiedpush/ups-imagestream               latest    12 days ago
imagestream.image.openshift.io/ups-oauth-proxy-imagestream   172.30.1.1:5000/unifiedpush/ups-oauth-proxy-imagestream   latest    12 days ago

NAME                                                                   HOST/PORT                                                                      PATH      SERVICES                                      PORT      TERMINATION   WILDCARD
route.route.openshift.io/example-unifiedpushserver-unifiedpush-proxy   example-unifiedpushserver-unifiedpush-proxy-unifiedpush.192.168.64.27.nip.io             example-unifiedpushserver-unifiedpush-proxy   <all>     edge/None     None
----

=== Optional configurations

> ==== Monitor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Monitoring
```

If the https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator#monitoring-service-metrics[Monitoring Service (Metrics)] is enabled for your installation you are able to check its Grafana Dashboard, `UnifiedPush Server`, and the Prometheus Monitoring instance used for it.

==== Backup

. Switch to the UPS namespace by running `oc project <namespace>`. E.g `oc project unifiedpush`

> . Check that link:./deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_cr_with_backup[UnifiedPushServerWithBackup CR] is deployed in the same namespace as the operator by running `oc get UnifiedPushServer`. Following the expected result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you have created a UnifiedPushServer with one or more backups configured in the spec (see link:../deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_cr_with_backup.yaml[example-ups-with-backups] as an example) is deployed in the same namespace as the operator by running `oc get UnifiedPushServer -o yaml`. The following is an example of the expected result:
```

+

> NOTE: Just one kind of UnifiedPushServer CR can be applied, however, if the backup service is enable for your installation then it means that it is using the ink:./deploy/crds/push_v1alpha1_unifiedpushserver_cr_with_backup[UnifiedPushServerWithBackup CR].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+
[source,shell]
----

> $ oc get UnifiedPushServer

Reviewer: Suggesting the `-o yaml` here because without it this command & output doesn't indicate that there are backups configured for it. Alternatively just remove this example, it's not that important.

```suggestion
$ oc get ups -o yaml
apiVersion: v1
items:
- apiVersion: push.aerogear.org/v1alpha1
  kind: UnifiedPushServer
  metadata:
    creationTimestamp: 2019-07-19T14:48:53Z
    generation: 1
    name: example-ups-with-backups
    namespace: unifiedpush
    resourceVersion: "2022474"
    selfLink: /apis/push.aerogear.org/v1alpha1/namespaces/unifiedpush/unifiedpushservers/example-ups-with-backups
    uid: 543d17c8-aa34-11e9-8158-06e620fa5d2a
  spec:
    backups:
    - backendSecretName: example-aws-key
      backendSecretNamespace: unifiedpush
      encryptionKeySecretName: example-encryption-key
      encryptionKeySecretNamespace: unifiedpush
      name: ups-daily-at-midnight
      schedule: 0 0 * * *
  status:
    phase: Complete
kind: List
metadata:
  resourceVersion: ""
  selfLink: ""

```

> NAME                        AGE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: If we address this suggestion we are not showing an example of the expected result at all.

Reviewer: I should have explained it better: the suggestion to remove this line (and the line below it) is coupled with the suggestion on the line above, where I'm suggesting to run `oc get ups -o yaml` rather than `oc get ups`. I think that's a better command to run in this case, since `oc get ups` doesn't give any information about backups, and that appears to be what this section of the SOP is about. Does that make sense?

I think the confusion here is because I can't do "suggestions" that operate on multiple existing lines (I can insert multiple new lines in a suggestion on one line though).

Author: The point is that the idea here is:
1. Check if the object is applied 
2. If the object is applied then check its values 

IMHO: It is easier for who never ever saw the project than go directly to step 2 and be lost because nothing was returned.

> example-unifiedpushserver   9d

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: If we address this suggestion we are not showing an example of the expected result at all.

----
+

> . To ensure that it is the UnifiedPushServer with the Backup see its specs by running `oc describe UnifiedPushServer`.

Reviewer: Either disregard my above comment where I was suggesting `oc get ups -o yaml`, and just remove that example; or alternatively just remove the section that starts here -- I think they both give the same information at this point.

Author: Hi @grdryn the info is not the same. When has the bkp the data in the CR is not the same when it has not. Why `oc get ups -o yaml` instead of `oc describe UnifiedPushServer`? What is the advantage? IMHO: `oc describe UnifiedPushServer` make more clear what is required to do here and more intuitive as well.

Reviewer: Ok fine, but what's the advantage of running `oc get UnifiedPushServer` in the code block on L670 then?

The intention of my original comment on this line was more like "there's room for improvement here, one way or the other".

Author: Note that the idea here is to describe for who never saw the project and has no idea over it. So, IHMO makes more sense.

1. Get the object
2. If has the object
3. Then check if is with the bkp or not ( the data changed and some example over what is expected can be helpful in this scenario to troubleshooting ). 

I hope that we can agree to move forward here in this way since it shows be following more that was requested by SRE in my POV. However, if not, could you please write here as you wish then I will cut and paste or let's do a BJ to finish it?

  UID:                 ec430bf1-9df4-11e9-817f-beb071062273
Status:
  Phase:  Complete
Events:   <none>

Name:         example-ups-with-backups
Namespace:    unifiedpush
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration={"apiVersion":"push.aerogear.org/v1alpha1","kind":"UnifiedPushServer","metadata":{"annotations":{},"name":"example-ups-with-backups","namespace":"unifi...
API Version:  push.aerogear.org/v1alpha1
Kind:         UnifiedPushServer
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  2019-07-16T08:51:47Z
  Generation:          1
  Resource Version:    8621940
  Self Link:           /apis/push.aerogear.org/v1alpha1/namespaces/unifiedpush/unifiedpushservers/example-ups-with-backups
  UID:                 f20c5f0b-a7a6-11e9-a6b1-beb071062273
Spec:
  Backups:
    Backend Secret Name:              example-aws-key
    Backend Secret Namespace:         unifiedpush
    Encryption Key Secret Name:       example-encryption-key
    Encryption Key Secret Namespace:  unifiedpush
    Name:                             ups-daily-at-midnight
    Schedule:                         0 0 * * *
Events:                               <none>
----
+

> . To verify that the backup has been successful created you can run the following command in the namespace where the operator is installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To verify that the backup has been successfully created you can run the following command in the namespace where the operator is installed.
```

Author: 👍

+
[source,shell]
----
$ oc get cronjob.batch/example-ups-with-backups
NAME                             SCHEDULE      SUSPEND   ACTIVE    LAST SCHEDULE   AGE
example-ups-with-backups   0 * * * *   False     0         13s             12m
----
+

> . To check the jobs executed you can run the command `oc get jobs` in the namespace where the operator is installed as the following example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To check the jobs executed you can run the command `oc get jobs` in the namespace where the operator is installed as in the following example.
```

Author: 👍
